But now anyone can use use fetch in the
application and I don't think about it.
Now, is there probably a use fetch on MPM?
I bet there is.
All right, there's probably
ones that hook into Axios.
It's MPM,
there's probably 42 of them, right,
with varying degrees of maintainability or
being maintained.
But what I would challenge
you is four things,
even interacting with your own API,
there's probably,
okay we always get from this API and
then we always have to format this data.
Don't do that in the components.
Where can you take the extractions in
your application and make a hook so
that you don't have to
ever think about it again.
Right?
It could be just a load stat young,
use stats, which hits the API,
does the formatting.
A lot of times I don't know about the rest
of y'all, but I work in an API company and
they're very wonderful, right?
But we use our public API's and our
public API's a lot of times are built for
developers writing integrations
with either Twilio or SendGrid.
They're not always written for
building user interfaces on top of that.
So sometimes,
I see some nods in the room, right?
Sometimes I gotta do a little
bit of stitching, right?
Yeah, in a perfect world with infinite
time, the engineers that I work with would
be totally happy to make any
damn points that I want.
But sometimes we're rushing
to get a feature done.
We got to do some stuff, but
we're stitching together multiple API's.
And so what I do in those cases is I try
to extract that I do not want to keep that
component.
I don't wanna keep that in my logic
anywhere in my component tree.
I don't wanna write it twice.
I wanna put it one place in one hook or
higher order component or
something along those lines.
And then when we get around to fixing it,
after we've shipped, and
we do the maintenance retractions that we
wanna do, I change it in that one place.
Any time you have to do
something squirrely,
put it in a box with a nice name.
And hide all of your demons
deep in your code base right?
Do not leave them out everywhere,
hide them with well named functions
cuz then it's like great.
[LAUGH] Leaving it exposed is bad
hiding it is good hide your problems.
That's existential advice as well.
All right,
let's talk a little bit about you might
notice that I'm using promise chaining.
Right, and to be clear,
I like promise chaining.
I actually liked that API I know
that you know, with async await and
I love async await but for actually
making a sync request, I prefer this.
And we'll kind of see why I
prefer it in general, but
I also prefer it with use effect.
And one of the reasons is,
is that you cannot pass
an async function directly to use
effect cuz they return promises.
It's tricky.
And so you still need to have
an overall function in there, right and
then you can have a child async
a function that you kick off.
So if I did wanna refactor this
a little bit to use an async
function I could do that,
you will see why I typically don't,
but we'll see why you could, right?
But I also just like the syntax better
in general, so those are my biases,
which I might as well just
put out there for you.
So again, this cannot be an async
function right there, we cannot do this,
but we can have a regular function that
then has a regular function in it.
All right, so I could say something like,
Or fetchUrl, whatever we wanna call it.
Call it fetchUrl, that seems fine.
And that'll be an async function,
where I can do the whole try.
And this point we'll say, Const
response = await fetch(url).
And then from there we'll say, I've got
to name it something else, we called it
response last time before, we'll say
away and we'll call it response.Json.
Cool and
then we'll do self response, Data.
If anything blows up, catch the air.
I will say set.
There is one nice thing I may be able
to do here in the try catch block.
Which is as before I haven't jacking
around with the loading stuff yet and
each case cuz with try catch
blocks I have finally.
Whether it went well,
whether it went poorly.
It went, right.
And we're no longer loading.
Now my understanding, this is, somebody
should validate this before I actually say
it out loud, but we're recording.
So let's go for it, is that there
is finally a method being added to
the Promise API in standard
JavaScript I don't know when it lands.
But so the nice part is we get
all of this finally stuff.
The other thing is we do
need to kick off this.
So we'd have to say fetch URL because just
defining a thing function isn't gonna
fetch anything.
So let me just comment this one out.
So we kinda define an async function,
and then we can kick it off and call it.
I don't like it, but if you have a bunch
of async a way code that you're moving,
or if there's another context where
you need to use an async function,
this is how you do it.
I choose not to.
[LAUGH] Right, but this will do
the trick as you can see and so
far that everything loaded once again.
So it's up to you,
again could you probably do something
fancy with an immediately evoked function?
I'm sure that you could but
as you can tell that is just not my
favorite thing to do in the world.
All right, as we mentioned before,
we could also
kind of use a reducer
pattern here as well, right?
And we could just say, instead of
setting all this stuff on and off,
we could have a reducer as basically,
all right.
Are we fetching, did we get a response,
did we get an error?
And that can then trigger all
the flags the way that it needs to be.